CSCE 311 Project 2 

1.	What are the APIs used to allocate memory in Linux user space, and when to use which.
There are four memory allocation techniques: alloca() function, malloc() function, mmap() function, and pre-allocaiton. The alloca() function allocates size bytes of space in the stack frame of the caller. The temporary space is freed when the alloca() function returns to its caller. This function is typicaly used on the stack. The malloc() function allocates the requested memory and returns a pointer. This function is typically used on the heap. The mmap() function creates a new mapping in the virtual address space of the calling process. It is typically used in situations that need memory mapping. The other option when it comes to allocating memory is to pre-allocate the memory by setting a specific block of memory aside for a given task. 
2.	When an address p is dereferenced, you may encounter SIGSEGV. Describe how the system recognizes p is an invalid address and triggers a SIGSEGV. Hint: your answer should involve TLB, page table, and VMA.
SIGSEGV is known as a segmentation violation that is caused by an invalid memory reference or a segmentation fault.  The system uses the TLB (translation lookaside buffer), which is also known as the address-translation cache, to look up the addresses in a process page table. IF there is no entry, then the processor triggers an accessor fault. If there is an entry in the page table, then the process checks the entry for access into the page. However, for a dereferenced address there is no virtual memory. Without the existence of a VMA then a SIGSEGV signal is sent. 
3.	What information is saved at /proc/$pid/maps?
The information that is saved at /proc/$pid/maps is the contiguous virtual memory in a process or thread. It contains the address, permissions, offset, device, inode, and pathname of the region of contiguous virtual memory. 
